---
author: Raynes
date: '2010-10-19 15:43:05'
layout: post
slug: anticipation
status: publish
title: Anticipation
wordpress_id: '12'
categories:
- Clojure-Conj
---

The clock continues to tick towards Friday as we slowly enter our
[Conj](http://clojure-conj.org/) state of mind. These are some of the
most exciting moments in Clojure's short history, and I think I speak
for the entire Clojure community when I say that I am absolutely pumped.
This is our opportunity to look each other in the eye, hear each other's
voice, and for some of us, meet the people that we work with in the
Clojure community on a daily basis. This is our gathering -- our
celebration of everything that makes Clojure awesome. Most of us are
arriving Thursday, and everybody is doing their own thing. The speakers
are getting together, and some
[people](http://groups.google.com/group/clojure/t/b7c66bfa4c288294) plan
to have themselves some Clojury fun before the conference as well. The
conference itself starts on Friday. It begins with breakfast and
registration, and then a whole day of talks with a couple of breaks. On
Friday night after the talks, we're off to celebrate Clojure's third
birthday at [Tir Na Nog](http://www.tirnanogirishpub.com/), an Irish pub
in Raleigh. It's going to be an exhausting day, and I know I'll be
hitting the bed with force the moment I get back to the hotel, resting
up for the next day. Saturday is the second and final day of the
conference. This day follows the same pattern as the first, and is
filled with talks. At some point, people will have the opportunity to
volunteer to give lightning talks. It'll be interesting to see what
people can come up with to talk about for 5 minute intervals. After the
talks are over (ended by a 50 minute talk by Stuart Halloway), some of
us (me included) are going to the Halloway residence for a [Conj after
party](http://conjafterparty.eventbrite.com/). This trip means a lot to
me. Not just because this trip is full of first times for me: my first
time on a plane, out of Alabama, staying in a nice hotel, attending a
conference, and being a part of something this historic and important.
This trip means everything to me mostly because [it was provided to me
by the Clojure community
itself](http://cemerick.com/2010/09/10/anthony-simpson-will-receive-his-clojure-scholarship-thanks-to-you/),
and that is something I'll never forget. I never asked for it, but with
the help of Chas Emerick, the awesome guys at
[Relevance](http://thinkrelevance.com/), and the amazing Clojure
community, my entire trip and stay has been funded, and the conference
admission waived. We actually got a few more donations than we asked
for! Everyone was so eager to donate that Chas didn't have a chance to
get the donate button down until we had already surpassed our $1,000
goal. I do not intend to squander the extra cash that I'll have left
over, as there are some things I need (such as a printer and a bed) that
this will really help with. Thank you. You are allowing me to live
beyond my means, and I don't take your generosity for granted. It seems
as if even Expedia and Delta want me to be happy. Over the weekend, we
had a bit of trouble when I realized that the name that I had Chas use
when he bought my plane ticket wasn't actually the right one. I've
always lived with my mother and her family, so for generally unofficial
things, I go by the last name 'Simpson'. However, legally, I have my
father's last name, which is 'Grimes'. Chas, Expedia, and Delta sorted
this out with a bit of paperwork, a picture of my driver's license, and
no fees. A last minute itinerary change without any fees? What more
could one ask for. I'm going to try to blog about my trip while I'm
gone, but I probably wont have time. Justin (ninjudd, of
[cake](http://github.com/ninjudd/cake) fame) is going to give a loner
laptop while we're at the Conj. If I find the time, I'll blog (or at
least tweet) every now and again while I'm there. If not, I'll certainly
be spewing information to anybody in earshot when I return. The two
months leading up to this have been a whirlwind and a blast. The
excitement continues to build, and I can only hope that I do not simply
explode the moment my eyes meet Rich Hickey's hair. I can't wait to see
everybody. I hope you're all as excited as I am. Go Conj!
