---
author: Raynes
date: '2010-11-04 21:07:23'
layout: post
slug: tryclojure-a-call-to-action
status: publish
title: TryClojure - A Call To Action
wordpress_id: '25'
---

# Introduction

For those of you who do not know what
[tryclojure](http://try-clojure.org)
[is](https://github.com/Raynes/tryclojure), it's a website that hosts a
Clojure REPL, and is designed with newbies in mind. The idea behind
tryclojure is to provide a no-barrier-to-entry point for people to give
Clojure a try. It should have a tutorial to introduce people to the
language and give them something to do with their pretty REPL.
# The Problem

Tryclojure was my very (very) first web development project in any
language. I did not know HTML, CSS, JavaScript, or anything else that
would have qualified me to write it. Even now, I'm definitely not the
person to be asking questions about web development. I do very, very
little of it. Tryclojure gets very little love. The only reason that I
had the audacity to try to author such a big and important project was
because I was almost certain that the community would jump on the chance
to contribute to it the moment that they laid eyes on it. This has not
happened. Tryclojure has been sitting idle for months now. Tryclojure
has problems that need worked out. I have a brief list of things along
with some other stuff here:
[https://github.com/Raynes/tryclojure/wiki/What-Needs-To-Be-Done](https://github.com/Raynes/tryclojure/wiki/What-Needs-To-Be-Done)
if you're interested in this project, it's important that you read that.
There are things that tryclojure needs that I don't yet have the skill
to provide. I'm not ashamed to say that I need help.
# Motivation

Tryclojure is a very important project. A site like that is sometimes
the difference between a new, excited user, and a disappointed, bored
user. Lots of people were very excited when tryclojure first emerged
from the abyss. This is your chance to be a part of it. If you desire an
open source project to contribute to, this could very well be it. Even
if you only write pieces of the tutorial, you've done tryclojure a huge
service. Tryclojure has the potential to stand proud with the crowd of
try sites, but right now, it isn't on that level. I'd hate for
tryclojure in its current state to become symbolic of Clojure. Clojure
isn't a half-assed language, so tryclojure shouldn't be a half-assed
website. Tryclojure can become an important part of Clojure, but I can't
do it alone.
# Contributing

So, you've drunk the kool-aid, and now you're interested in doing some
work. I'll try to help you out a bit. The official repository is here:
[https://github.com/Raynes/tryclojure](https://github.com/Raynes/tryclojure)
What needs to be done, among other things is here:
[https://github.com/Raynes/tryclojure/wiki/What-Needs-To-Be-Done](https://github.com/Raynes/tryclojure/wiki/What-Needs-To-Be-Done)
You can run tryclojure by running a REPL in the project, bringing in
tryclojure.core and calling the tryclj function. Tryclojure is currently
compatible with both Leiningen and cake. It uses nothing specific to
either. I, personally, use cake. If anything, I'd like to keep it
compatible with both build tools, but if we need to use something
specific to either, please use cake. I don't particularly care *how* you
contribute. If you want to do it Clojure style and submit patches on
issues, that's great. Pull requests are fine too. An important thing is
that we keep things public. If you're fixing something, adding
something, changing something, etc, please make an issue for it
beforehand. Also, you might want to discuss your changes on the
tryclojure [mailing list](http://groups.google.com/group/tryclojure).
Even if only for the purpose of keeping things public. So, that's my
call to action. Clojurian JavaScripters and Web Developers come! Hear my
call! Together, we can conquer them all!
