---
author: Raynes
date: '2011-06-05 09:40:30'
layout: post
slug: songbird-in-2011
status: publish
title: Songbird in 2011
wordpress_id: '151'
categories:
- Songbird
---

So, I'm a secret long-time [Songbird](http://getsongbird.com/) fan. I
know, I know. Once they dropped Linux support everybody (including
myself) ran like hell and never looked back. As it turns out, they may
have been right about their Linux user base -- it wasn't that
significant. Mostly, they just haven't had quite as much publicity since
then, because people got understandably butthurt. However, Songbird has
continued to evolve, so one can only assume that they're OS X and
Windows user base is still going strong. Of course, Songbird still works
on Linux and they put out 'unofficial'
[builds](http://wiki.songbirdnest.com/Developer/Articles/Builds/Nightly_Builds)
all the time, though they're always labeled as 'unofficial' and
'untested' (whatever that is supposed to mean). I actually tried it on
Linux and, save for some issues with conflicting gstreamers (Songbird
ships it's own version of gstreamer), it worked fine. I don't quite
understand what they mean by "we no longer support Linux" when, three
years later, they're still putting out Linux builds and they still work.
I find it bizarre that they have volunteers that can handle this, but
they can't handle at least some resemblence of official 'support' for
Linux? Songbird is open source, so I highly doubt it'll ever be broken
as long as Linux users that happen to be programmers are using it.
Nonetheless, I stopped using it when I moved to Linux a few years ago.
I've used everything else, but not Songbird. But now I'm on a mac, and I
don't even want to think about touching iTunes. My good ol' Clementine
is fantastic, but Songbird supports all sorts of stuff that it doesn't,
with CD ripping being a good example. Of course, Clementine will get all
the features that I like at some point because it has an awesome
developer, and the things it doesn't support are things I don't really
need, but hey, I'm on a platform that Songbird officially supports, so
why not? Alas, I'm using Songbird once again. Oh, the nostalgia.
Songbird is good. Still sucks up a fat portion of memory, but shit, most
media players do at this point, and Songbird does more than most and
does it prettier than most. I'm the last person on earth to give a shit
how much memory things use as long as I have enough to fit what I'm
working with in, and I have plenty. I'm an Emacs user. I like the
kitchen sink and all that. Songbird is beautiful:
![image](http://raynes.me/songbird.png) The theme (feather) system is
lovely, and Songbird can have virtually any look you can think of. That
isn't really what I was looking for though. Media views are important to
me. I am extremely picky about how I am allowed to look at my music. In
the screenshot above, notice there are several different panes. Those
are 'filter panes'. An alternative to the iTunesy list view, they allow
me to look through my music and narrow things down based on genre,
album, and artist. I'm actually surprised at how few media players have
something like this. It seemed like a massive miss to me in that new
fangled [Miro](http://www.getmiro.com/) thingy and is my top major
reason for not using it. And, if filter view isn't enough for you, the
media view stuff in Songbird is extensible! You can actually add new
media views via extensions, so you have an infinite number of ways to
look at your media library and if you're a programmer, you can create
them yourself. This brings us to extensions, another neat feature of
Songbird. Songbird is very Mozillia-y, being a descendent of Firefox,
and has a very thorough extension system. When you think of Songbird
extensions, think of Firefox extensions. They're quite similar in
capability. Chatzilla actually runs in Songbird, if you need an idea.
Songbird is very modular and a lot of even relatively basic
functionality is implemented as extensions, including the lyrics pane in
my screenshot and even stuff like syncing. And this brings us to
syncing! Songbird is great at syncing. Syncing is implemented as various
extensions for MTP and MSC devices.I use my HTC Evo as my little music
box, so I enjoy easy ways to throw music at it. Android is great because
you can just drag and drop music into the file system just like you
would on your own computer. However, there is something to be said for
being able to sync from your desktop media player just by dragging and
dropping it. This \*almost\* worked out of the box. Songbird detected my
Evo as soon as I plugged it in. Syncing works out of the box for some
devices because these devices are known and configured beforehand.
Songbird has to know what types of media a device can take and thus it
has to know about that device beforehand for it to work perfectly. If it
doesn't know about the device, it has to assume it is just a random
standard media device and only assumes that it can play MP3 files.
Apparently, for some reason, it couldn't figure out my poor Evo, and my
music collection mostly consists of OGG files. Jesus wept. So, Songbird
keeps a file in the root of a device's file system called
.SBSettings.xml. This file can tell Songbird its capabilities (what it
can play and what it can do). Therefore, it must be changed. I'm not a
huge fan of editing XML files by hand just to sync music to a phone, so
I found [Devise](http://addons.songbirdnest.com/addon/1895/), a
fantastic little extension for Songbird for editing .SBSettings.xml. It
provides a simple UI for defining your phone's capabilities. I got all
that done in about 30 seconds and was syncing music. If you find
yourself in this position and Songbird can't figure out your device,
grab that extension. 9 times out of 10, you'll spend hours trying to
figure out how to write the XML properly yourself, especially if you
aren't a programmer. .SBSettings.xml isn't meant to be edited by hand by
users. Beyond this, Songbird does the typical things you'd expect from a
media player. It actually even has some support for videos, but I'm not
quite sure how much. If you haven't heard much about it in a while, rest
assured that Songbird is still heavily developed and well supported. If
you're on OS X or Windows, go ahead and give it a go. If you're on
Linux, hell, even you could give it a go. The whole "we've dropped Linux
support" thing seems like a case of blowing ones wad a bit too early.
That said, they could break it tomorrow and nobody would have even the
slightest right to bitch about it because they would be able to play the
"Hey, we called it..." card, rightfully. Songbird works on Linux right
now, but it may not work forever. A lot of people just jump shipped and
abandoned Songbird when they dropped Linux support when they could have
saved the whole project if they had just stepped up and helped out. If
you like Songbird, consider helping out with the Linux support.
[Nightingale](http://getnightingale.com/) is a step in the right
direction, but they're still having trouble getting off the ground.
They're keeping people updated but progress is obviously slow, and that
is a direct result of not enough organization and manpower. Help them
out. Nightingale is an important project. P.S. This whole post was meant
to be about syncing Songbird with Android devices, but I'll be damned if
I didn't turn it into a whole post about Songbird. Hope you enjoyed it
and learned something anyway. :)
