---
author: Raynes
date: '2011-03-22 10:12:53'
layout: post
slug: return-or-progress-report-on-meet-clojure
status: publish
title: Return (or, Progress Report on Meet Clojure)
wordpress_id: '111'
categories:
- Clojure
- Meet Clojure
---

To start off, I'll point out the obvious: I've been all but entirely
inactive for around 2 months. My [Github page](http://github.com/Raynes)
does not lie. Alas, I've not written any code. I also haven't written
any of my book in the same amount of time. Well, besides maybe two
sections and some various fixes. No serious new content. The fact of the
matter is, I'm a teenager. I'm weak. These last two months, I've done
things with my life that didn't involve computers, and I enjoyed it. It
was a 'break' of sorts for me. I have to say I needed it. People who
know me can vouch on the amount of time that I was spending on the
computer for a good year or two. Well, it's about time I come back. My
buddy [Alan](http://github.com/amalloy) has been maintaining my projects
while I was inactive. Awesome little San Francisconian fellow.
Furthermore, I have a decent shot at getting my book published, so I
really need to get back to work on it. I'm coming up with a battle plan
that I'll detail here. First of all, everything I said about the book is
still true. It'll be a totally free introductory text on Clojure even if
I do get it published. Getting it published would just be a huge cherry
at the tip of the ice-cream cone, because it would mean print versions
and a little cash for myself in the process. No Starch seems interested
in my book, and we're currently figuring things out. Second, a lot of
the book is written. It is nowhere near done, but I wrote a hefty amount
of tome in a very short amount of time. Of course, speed doesn't come
without disadvantages. The book feels rickety to me. I'm not satisfied
with how everything is right now, so I definitely have a lot of work do
to. The first thing I want to do is read Chris Houser and Mike Fogus's
masterpiece, [The Joy of Clojure](http://joyofclojure.com/), from cover
to cover. There are a lot of things that I do not understand and that I
need to understand in order to complete my book. One gaping hole in my
knowledge is about reasonably advanced Java interop and concurrency
stuff. These are things that I'll have to spend time with and let sink
in. After I finish The Joy of Clojure, I'm going to read my entire book
(what is written) from cover to cover and restructure things, add
content where content should be but is missing, and rewrite existing
content that isn't *quite* right. This is hugely important. After that,
I can start adding new content. Furthermore, there are a lot of people
that are interested in reviewing my book. Since the book is going to be
open source, I am not stingy and any Clojurer who would like to help me
out is very welcome to do so. Just email me or send me a message at
Github. If you've already done this before and got no response, try
again. Bug the shit out of me. I don't mind. I think I've missed a few
people, so I'm going to start compiling a list of these people so that I
can keep track of who I should give material to. In conclusion: I'm
back. You'll be able to find me in \#clojure more often again. The book
is absolutely still in progress. Slow progress, but progress
nonetheless. I haven't left the Clojure game, I've only taken a break. I
love you guys, Clojure, and programming in general way to much to
disappear forever. Sincerely, Anthony *P.S. Before you mention it, no,
I'm not so important that I necessarily need a return announcement. But
damn it, my ego asked for one, and who am I to deny him what he asks
for?*
