---
author: Raynes
date: '2011-02-17 11:45:36'
layout: post
slug: my-quest-for-decent-cell-service
status: publish
title: My quest for decent cell service
wordpress_id: '98'
categories:
- Cell Service
---

I recently spent a couple of weeks doing hardcore research into the
various cell service providers in the USA. Ultimately, I decided on
Sprint and the HTC Evo 4g. I'm satisfied. Here is the story. I live in
an extremely small town in Alabama called Eldridge. There is no DSL
here, and there is no Wi-Fi. If you want even remotely fast internet
here, your options are satellite and mobile internet. For a very long
time, I've lived with dialup internet. Yes, there are still places on
this planet where dialup is the best option at any given point of time.
I pray to whatever God may exist that this changes and changes soon.
Nobody should have to live with it. The worst part is that I am a
programmer. A programmer on dialup? Seriously? Imagine me having to tell
people "I can't watch that video because it'll take three days to
load.". Explaining it is the worst part. You eventually get sick of
people going "wut? how?" and eventually stop bothering to mention it
unless you don't have a choice. Thus, I'm not sure many people actually
know that I've been on a dialup connection. Even when I wasn't on a
dialup connection, I was on a mobile connection that was almost on par
with the dialup connection, making it quite redundant. Anyways, let's
talk about internet. Satellite is an okay option. The problem is that
the major providers (Wildblue and HughesNet) cost a small fortune in one
way or another. There is no optimal place to put a satellite dish on my
roof, thus standard installation wouldn't be an option. Pole
installations can be in the range of $300-$600 dollars, and that just
isn't something I can live with. Beyond that, satellite is limited in
that the latency is horrible. On top of all that, the major providers
place caps on your head that limit your usage of your high speed. I'm a
firm believer in "what the fuck is the point of having speed if I can't
even use it?". This applies. Mobile internet is a great option. With
these modern phones, you don't even really need a special modem. Android
phones are really great about providing ways for you to tether. And it
isn't really all that pricey from any of the carriers. I pay for cell
service anyway, so it isn't a really huge deal. The problem is that
carriers do not appreciate it when you rape their networks and suck up
their bandwidth. Thus, a lot of them impose caps. Verizon is supposedly
uncapped, but try googling "verizon cap". One person will tell you there
are no caps, another will tell you something else. Apparently they
change their ToS like an ice cube changes state when thrown into the
sun. I'm not into that. Verizon also has an add-on plan for tethering
Android phones via wifi. $20 a month with a 2GB cap. Goodbye. T-Mobile,
for a long time, allowed tethering galore. They pretended it didn't
happen, and silently allowed. Recently, they decided to jump on the
opportunity to snatch some more cash and started imposing a $15
tethering and wi-fi sharing plan on users. I don't believe there is a
hard cap, but they have some awful scary wording in their ToS about
excessive usage. Besides that, T-Mobile has notoriously horrible service
and my area is certainly no exception. They have internet here, but it
is a measly 1kB better than the dialup. Fail. AT&T is... well.. AT&T. I
hear nothing but horror stories about AT&T. In any case, they also have
low caps. Sprint is great. It's said that sprint has horrible customer
service, but I haven't really experienced this. I ended up deciding on
Sprint. I went to their store and the staff was excellent. They got us
all set up in around 4 hours and I was on my way. I had some hiccups
because my phone number prefix (the three digits after the area code)
was Birmingham, AL, which isn't local. I called customer support and
talked to a somewhat incompetent woman that changed my area code instead
of my prefix, and then I got cut off and my phone stopped working. My
next call to support got it all fixed up. Most importantly, each person
I talked to was American. They all spoke proper English. I'm not racist
and I certainly understand that foreign people need jobs too, but if
you're doing support for American people and you can't speak
understandable English, you're in the wrong line of work. Sprint's
coverage map says that I'm in a 3G area. At my home, I get around 15kBps
with spikes to 16-20. I know that this isn't real 3G speed, but it is
\*so\* much better than dialup. With dialup, you're pulling down
2-3kBps. Unreasonable! I'm obviously still not a speed demon, but I can
stream Pandora radio and a large selection of grooveshark songs on the
lower quality side. I'm very satisfied. This is better, and better is
okay with me. Nonetheless, I can't blame it for not getting perfect
reception. I live on the dark side of fucking nowhere. Furthermore,
Sprint does not, at this point in time, have any caps. At all. They
offer a $30 wifi tethering add-on that allows you to turn your phone
into a wifi hotspot. However, USB tethering is free in Android 2.2.
While I mostly just use the USB tethering (the phone needs to be plugged
in anyway because it'll run out of battery life rather quickly while
tethering), I went ahead and got the wifi hotspot plan anyway. I think
that, for uncapped and excellent service like this, $30 bucks a month is
totally reasonable. So, I'm canceling my old dialup service (that I
actually haven't used in a long time since I was tethering with my
T-Mobile phone). Insofar, I'm pleased with Sprint all around and I think
I'm going to stay awhile. Not that I have a choice, given the 2 year
contract, but I do have around 20 days to take everything back and jump
ship. I don't see this happening though. I don't see myself being any
happier with Verizon and friends. I have okay service with Sprint,
internet, and holy shit, I can even make phone calls! What I've learned
from this is that all providers suck in one way or another. If you try
to find the perfect cell phone provider, you're in for a huge
disappointment. Do what I did: find the provider that fulfills \*your\*
needs. They're always going to suck somehow. Find the one that sucks the
least in the ways that matter to you. The same probably applies to
internet service providers and other, similar things. As a side note, I
was really surprised to see that Ubuntu 10.04 automatically detects and
connects when you plug your phone into the computer's USB port and
switch on USB tethering. I nearly shit myself. Fantastic. For the
record, the phone I have is an Evo.
