---
author: Raynes
date: '2011-07-10 21:43:10'
layout: post
slug: all-media-centers-suck
status: publish
title: All Media Centers Suck
wordpress_id: '157'
---

Recently, I've had a little down time thanks to appendicitis and a good
round of surgery, so I've been working on getting a media center set up
on my laptop. Unfortunately, none of them do everything that I require.
The big choices right now are XBMC, Plex, and Boxee. They're all
excellent in some areas and pathetic in others.
# My Requirements

I'm pretty picky about what I need from a media center. My needs are not
the same as everyone else. First of all, I have a poor internet
connection. It's fast enough to stream from Netflix, but it's a verizon
mifi card, and they don't like it when you rape their bandwidth.
Therefore, I have to keep my streaming to a minimum. Because of that, I
have these things called DVDs. They're these neat little discs that hold
movies. I get them from Netflix and Redbox and I put them into my little
disc drive and movies play on my screen. It works pretty well. I need
for my media center to handle, at a minimum, Pandora radio, Netflix
streaming, DVD playback, music playback, and the ability to control it
all from my android phone with a wifi remote. Sounds easy, doesn't it?
Guess what. None of them do it.
# Boxee

Boxee is great. It's a little do-it-all media center that can run on
your computer or a dedicated "Boxee Box" that you can buy. Ever since
the Boxee box came out, development has been focused on it. Recently,
everybody started whining so they promised to pick development back up
and have a release out by... this fall. In any case, Boxee in its
current incarnation is very nice. It can play Pandora better than Plex,
and it can stream Netflix just fine. It can do a whole lot of other
stuff as well. Unfortunately, the latest version for the mac,
0.9.23.15885, cannot play DRM'd DVDS. They've disabled DVD support and
an issue in their issue tracking about it was closed as 'won't fix' with
no explanation. Goodbye Boxee. I hope that, in that next release, it'll
be enabled. If the DVD support worked, Boxee would be absolutely
perfect.
# XBMC

XBMC is the biggest one of them all. It's the media center that the
other media centers we're talking about were based on. It's a fantastic
media center within itself. However, it doesn't even come close to doing
what I need. Out of all the things I require, the only thing it does is
handle DVD playback and music playback. They haven't even taken a shot
at adding Netflix and such. No clue why, seeing as how the media centers
like Boxee and Plex that are based on it do implement them. There are
third party add-ons for Netflix and Pandora though. Haven't tried the
Pandora add-on, but the Netflix plugin, XBMC flicks, at this point in
time, doesn't work. It hasn't worked for the better part of this year.
Whether or not it'll actually be fixed is up in the air. XBMC isn't
really much of an option for me.
# Plex

Plex is awesome. It is like Boxee in that it gets all of the streaming
and local media stuff right. Its Pandora support is a little wonky but
appears to work. The Netflix support is perfectly fine. The problem is
that it doesn't support DVD playback in a meaningful way. It has
\*some\* support for it. You can turn it on and hit 'dvd' in the menu.
It goes straight to the DVD menu. I couldn't find any settings for
anything, and turning on subtitles is tedious and unintuitive. You can't
even eject the disc when you're done. Plex is great, but the DVD support
is basically worthless. The biggest thing that irks me is how little the
developers seem to care about DVD support. I'm beginning to wonder if
I'm the only person who sees the importance of it. For the past 2 years
or so, they've been saying things like "It's on our radar." and "We need
to improve that." but haven't done anything. Maybe in the next 10 years
or so when DVDs are obsolete they'll finish up the DVD support. ;) Now,
there is a workaround. You can set up applications to launch from within
Plex. For example, you can make the mac's default DVD player launch, and
when it's closed, Plex will reopen. Nice! The problem is that, while I
\*can\* control Plex using the Plex remote from my Android phone, I
cannot control DVD player. Alas, the dream is dead. Until Plex has
decent DVD playback, I'm out of options. I'm extremely disappointed with
my findings. At this point in time, all media centers suck (in certain
ways).
## Updates: July 19, 2011

Eventually I decided on Plex. I ripped my entire DVD collection so the
poor DVD support is less of an issue for me now. Furthermore, the
Pandora plugin crappiness is [not their
fault](http://forums.plexapp.com/index.php/topic/4249-pandora-thank-you/page__view__findpost__p__87184).
It turns out, Pandora is run by assholes who favor Boxee. I still think
Boxee is nice. Plex is nicer. The media server and manager is fantastic
and I can think of tons of uses for it in the future. Boxee plans to
release a new version this fall (after the majority of their userbase
had given up on them, assuming they had abandoned the downloadable
version for the Boxee Box version), so it remains to be seen if it can
win my heart. I doubt it. All it has that Plex doesn't have that I want
is a decent Pandora app, and it isn't even Plex's fault that it doesn't
have a good one. Boxee could be the best all around if it just had a few
more developers to spare towards the downloadable version. But, it's
forgivable. They aren't a huge company and they have to prioritize. I
just wish the Boxee Box wasn't the priority. They had a dream and
they're living that dream. Good for them!
