---
author: Raynes
date: '2011-02-18 09:44:14'
layout: post
slug: the-eternal-war
status: publish
title: The Eternal War
wordpress_id: '105'
categories:
- Emacs
---

Editor wars have been going on for many, many years. Many, many years
before my time. Obviously, it isn't a war in the traditional sense, but
more of a war of words. Attitude and colorful remarks from both sides of
the war have kept it raging behind the scenes and will continue to do so
for the foreseeable future. Emacs and Vim are two very different text
editors with two very different designs and philosophies. At their core,
they're both meant to help users edit text. That is where the
similarities end. Vim is a very lightweight editor. It tries to do one
thing and do it well -- edit text. It does this well and always has.
Emacs is a 500 pound gorilla powerhouse that is designed to do
*anything* that *anybody* could ever possibly want. Its extension
language is a Lisp dialect that was created specifically for the editor,
and it's quite capable. I think that Vim is a fantastic *editor*. That
is the goal, right? To be a fantastic editor? It succeeds in what it
sets out to do. Nothing wrong here. But Emacs isn't just an editor. As
far as I know, nobody ever claimed that it was a lightweight editor and
that it tries to be what Vim is. It absolutely doesn't. When you
experience arguments between Vim and Emacs users, the primary argument
from Vim users is that they want a text editor, not an operating system.
And this is where I begin to get confused. Why is this objectively a bad
thing? Is it a bad thing simply because it isn't precisely what Vim
users want? I understand their desire for minimalism, but that is what
*they* want, and not necessarily what everybody else wants. I don't see
how it can be objectively bad for Emacs to not be limited in
functionality. That is not what Emacs is meant to be. Personally, I
enjoy being able to play Tetris, edit text, talk on IRC, read email, and
run a terminal (and possibly even Vim itself from within that terminal)
all within the same application. These are just a few examples of things
that Emacs can be extended to do. A long time ago, how lightweight an
application was was very important due to hardware and space
limitations. Vim is very small, and Emacs is large(r). Some people still
make this argument. It's 2011. Please, be serious. 20MB and a bit more
RAM wont make very much of a difference. This is perhaps the silliest
and most irrelevant argument of the bunch. I don't have much to say
about it. A useful metaphor is the cell phone. Believe it or not, people
used to purchase those things in order to make phone calls whilst not
near a land-line phone. Shocking, isn't it? These days, the making calls
part of phones are perhaps the most irrelevant part of the phone itself.
We are now, quite literally, packing entire operating systems (that are
actually extremely capable) and powerful hardware that, just a few
decades ago, would have been considered magic, into our phones and
distributing them among the people. But they still make phone calls, and
a lot of them do it very well. These phones do a lot. They do things
that are entirely unrelated to making phone calls. I use my cell phone
as a modem and my internet is my phone's internet. Phones are also
wildly popular, and the vast majority of people don't disregard cell
phones, joke about them, or be hostile towards them simply because they
offer amazing functionality. Some people, however, just want to make
phone calls. People still use home phones. Land-line phones do one
thing, and they do it well. We don't throw them away simply because we
have the hottest and most powerful cell phone on the market. This
concept applies to Emacs and Vim. I think they coexist well, and I think
that arguing about which is best is, at best, silly. They're different
editors designed for very different things. They have wildly different
philosophies and whichever of those philosophies appeal to you the most
decides which editor you will choose to spend your time with. Most
importantly they both do what they do very well. There are some real and
serious arguments that impacts one's choice of editor. Emacs and Vim are
very different when it comes to commands. Emacs uses key chords and Vim
mostly uses words and letters. To close Emacs, you'd type C-x-C-c or
control+x control+c. In Vim, you'd switch to command mode and type ":q".
Preference over one or the other often decides which editor someone will
use. I like key chords. I can understand why others may not. In
conclusion, I pose a question: why do we continue to ridicule each
other? I die a little inside whenever I see arguments where there are
jokes like "I don't use Emacs because I only have 1TB of harddrive
space." and "I want a text editor, not an operating system.". Wouldn't
we be more productive using whatever editor we please to get real work
done rather than arguing about which editor we should use to get said
work done? I think so. To people unfamiliar with the big two, I propose
a piece of advice: try out both of them. Don't go off and read
arguments, because those arguments will almost certainly fill your mind
with misconceptions and silliness that need not be there. Just yourself
is all you need to decide which editor *you* like better. It's you that
will be using it, not them. They don't have to like it.
