---
layout: post
title: "Defining Life Based On Who You're Stuck In A Room With"
date: 2012-04-23 02:27
comments: true
categories:
- Geni
- Los Angeles
---

I turned 18 in February of this year. I've long known that hitting that
milestone would mean a lot major life changes in quick succession, and I
have prepared to be overwhelmed. I've been told that being overwhelmed
is the only logical human thing to experience when these sorts of things
begin to happen. I've got to say, it's one hell of a ride, but it's one
I'm very happy to be taking.

## Work

I've been working with a wonderful company called
[Geni](http://geni.com) for the past year. Geni is a genealogy
website dedicated to building a family tree of the whole world. You make
an account and create your family tree.

Around two years ago, I was lucky enough to meet and become good friends
with Justin Balthrop and Lance Bradley, both engineers at Geni. They had
just created the cake build tool and I was one of the first users. The
first experience I remember with these guys was me arguing with them
over a feature cake had that I did not like, which was that it would
start a swank server by default whenever you ran a command. I can't
remember the details of why this was a problem with me, but the end
result was that they made the feature more configurable and off by
default.

Days go by, we become friends. We met in person for the first time at
the first Clojure Conj conference in late 2011. We spent the entire
conference together. We had a lot of fun.

Eventually, Lance and Justin began talking about the possibility of me
working at Geni as an intern. I think I was still 16 when I had my phone
interview with the then-CTO, Amos. Several months passed while details
were worked out. Amos left the company and Justin was promoted to CTO,
which gave him more wiggle room for bringing me on as an intern quickly.
I started in March of last year.

Oh my, what a wonderful year. 17 years old, working part time with
Clojure from my own home all the way across the country. Even making
money! Lance and Justin have taught me so much and given me so much
experience. They've helped build my skill and my confidence in my skill,
and I don't think I'd be even remotely the man I am right now without
their ongoing influence. I don't think they'll ever know what they've
done and continue to do for me.

## Turning 18

Turning 18 was always an important milestone for my Geni work. As long
as I was a minor and still in high school, I could only work part time
and the legality of things would be complicated.

Our plan was to fly me out to Los Angeles when I turned 18. I would work
in the office for a week face to face with my coworkers and experience
LA. A few weeks before I was meant to make this trip, I freaked out for
a few days. Moving away from home is the expected end result of all of
this. Unfortunately, there are circumstances preventing me from relocating
my family at this point in time, and thus this is something that I would
have to do alone.

Needless to say, this scared the hell out of me. So much so that I
talked to Lance and Justin and pleaded for a way to continue working
there and not have to uproot. Justin encouraged me to relax and just
come out there for the trip and talk again after LA was no longer an
imaginary place. His and Lance's calm regarding this matter along with
encouragement from my family to make this happen calmed me down
significantly. I still wasn't sure about moving, but the possibility
stopped being ridiculous and began to make sense.

## Los Angeles

The plan became a reality last week. I stepped on my flight on the
morning of Friday the 13th. This was the first flight I had ever taken
by myself, and it would lead me to a place farther away from home than I
had ever been before.

I had a connection in Nashville where I got on a plane to Los Angeles.
After this uneventful 4 hour flight, I found myself on an escalator down
to a man waiting for me with my name on a card. This man drove me to the
studio where I was to stay until the 21st. What makes this drive notable
is that my best friend Alan (also an engineer at Geni) sent me a text
message saying "Welcome to LA!". I smiled so hard that I'm surprised my
teeth didn't fall out. My entire experience was braced on this text
message. Los Angeles stopped being this scary place where I would be
alone. Much to the contrary, I was surrounded by friends; the greatest
people I've ever had the privilege of knowing. And they all wanted me
there. They were all waiting for me to arrive. If you've never
experienced this, you're missing out.

I was picked up shortly after arriving by Lance and carted to the Geni
office on Sunset Boulevard for the first time. They had set me up a desk
and an amazing Aeron chair. Lance gave me a tour of the office and then
he, Justin, Alan, and I all headed across the street to BOA Steakhouse
for a fantastic dinner.

This was the beginning of a whirlwind weekend where Lance showed me the
most amazing things I've ever seen. He gave me the tour of a lifetime
and conversation that I will never forget. Alan came along with us for a
lot of the weekend activities. Notably, Lance showed me Hollywood, Santa
Monica, and Venice. I had never seen the ocean before, so it was mind
blowing. We all took our shoes off and stood in the cold waters of
pacific tide at Venice beach. I've never had so much fun in my life. Not
for one second did I think of home, leaving my family, uprooting,
changing. All that mattered was how I felt, and I felt amazing.

We did so many things that weekend that I couldn't bring them all to
mind in order to list them even if I tried. Notably, we saw a wonderful
movie called The Chronicle and Lance and Alan took me to my first 3D movie
(Wrath of the Titans) which I thoroughly enjoyed.

Monday begins my first 40 hour week at Geni, working in the office face
to face with my coworkers. I felt at home the moment I plugged my laptop
into the monitor on my desk. The conversations between my coworkers are
smart and well worth listening to, and we have plenty of fun in the
office as well. Light Table was kickstarting at the time, so we had lots
of conversation about that and we followed developments closely.

During the week, Lance and I would sometimes do stuff after work. Lance
took me to the hills one night and showed me the most amazing view of
the city from above. The lights go on forever and the cars appear to be
infinite. It is like an ocean on land, and it surrounds you on every
side. It is inspiring and overwhelming in its beauty and is one of my
highlights from the week.

I got a lot of work done during the week. I had never bought into the
whole you-gain-a-lot-by-working-face-to-face thing, but I have to say,
I believe it now. It is a lot easier to get things done and to
concentrate when you're in an office setting. If you need something from
somebody, you find them and talk to them. There are few distractions.
I highly value an office setting now and I'm excited at the prospect of
doing it every day.

By Thursday, two nights before the morning I was to leave, I found myself
in a position that I never expected myself to be in: I did not want to go
home at all. I was enjoying it so much that the fact that I had to go home
at the end of the week had been entirely an afterthought. It was saddening
when the time finally came.

On Thursday, Lance and I left work early and drove to Malibu. Lance has
suggested that Venice beach was not a good first beach experience. I
didn't know what he meant until I saw the beaches of Malibu. They were
so utterly majestic! The first thing I noticed was that I could, for the
first time, noticeably smell the ocean air. We went below Point Dume and
climbed over rocks to tide pools. The scenery took my breath away.

Earlier in the day, Justin told me he wanted to talk about my trip and
my plans for the future. We went to a private room and talked. He was
concerned about putting pressure on me. He asked me how I liked it there
and if I had decided whether or not I wanted to come work at Geni full
time and live in LA. I was telling him yes in the blink of an eye.

Things are set in motion now. I get my diploma on the 25th of this month
(April), and Geni will be able to make me a full time offer. In the next
couple of months, I'll move to Los Angeles and begin a life on my own.

## Stuck In A Room

There is an episode of House where House talks with a patient (who had
been raped and was pregnant) who he is reluctant to treat. There is a
part where the girl says something along the lines of "All life is is a
series of rooms, and who you're stuck in those rooms with adds up to
what your life is.". This is what comes to mind when I think of this
trip and my future.

Moving to LA, I will not be alone. In fact, I'll be stuck in a series of
rooms. The important thing is that there is nobody in this world who I
would rather be stuck in those rooms with. I've got the best friends in
the world, and I have the luxury of them also being my coworkers. I've
never wanted to be stuck in a room so much in my life.

My friends have given me the best and most important week of my life. It
was a life-changing trip that I will never forget. It has and will shape
my life and future. A follower on twitter mentioned that it is amazing
when things click, and I have to say that I agree.

I'm very excited about my future. My life is about to change radically,
and I'm okay with it. I have choices and options I've never had before,
and I see my path in front of me. It is going to be one hell of a ride,
but it is a ride that I'm happy to take. Lance, Justin, Alan, thanks for
making this a reality. Thanks for making things easy. Thanks for giving
me an amazing new room to get stuck in.


Thanks for reading.
