---
layout: post
title: "The Los Angeles Public Transit System"
date: 2013-07-05 02:54
comments: true
categories:
- Public Transit
- Los Angeles
- Not Tech
---

I moved to Los Angeles in February of this year (2013), and I didn't have a car
for the majority of the time I've been here. In fact, up until about a week and
a half ago, I didn't have a car! That's about 5 months.

I thought I'd put together a blog post with some general tips and information
about LA's public transit system.

## Tips

If you've ever lived in Los Angeles or read much about it, you've probably heard
about how horrible our public transit system is. How bad it is is highly
dependent on a number of factors:

* Where you live
* Where you need to go
* What time you need to go there

Here are some general tips for using the LA bus systems.

### Where You Live

Where you live is a really big deal. Buses are more prevalent in some places
than they are in others. For example, if you don't live within quick and easy
walking distance of major roads like Hollywood Blvd, Sunset Blvd, Santa Monica
Blvd, etc, you may end up spending so much time getting to the bus stop that it
isn't a viable method of travel.

#### Distance To Bus Stops

If you're just moving to LA and know that you're going to need to use public
transit, make walking distance to important bus stops a big factor in your
decisions about where you live, especially if it is your only means of travel.

What I did was apartment browse like I normally would, but for each apartment I
looked up the address in google maps and got public transit directions from that
location to my most common destinations to see how hard it'd be to get to them.
This is a big deal, and it's very easy to do, so make sure you do it.

#### Essentials

One big problem I had was getting essentials for every day life. Groceries and
such become a big obstacle. There are two problems here: you can't carry very
much in one trip, and you must live within reach of stores.

The apartment that I chose was located in walking distance to a Vons grocery
store and 1 mile bus distance to a City Target for anything I couldn't get on
Vons. Don't assume you can rely on Amazon and such for delivery. Sometimes it is
much more cost effective and useful to buy things in actual stores. For
example, I had lots of trouble finding decent cheap dinnerware sets online, but
Target has tons of them.

Expect to make tons of trips to the grocery store depending on how often you go
and how much you need. This was very likely the worst part of not having a car
in LA.

### Where You Need To Go

This is also important. If your most traveled-to destination is work, try to
live close to work. If you can't live close to work, you're probably going to
have a pretty terrible time with the bus system. Unless you're lucky enough to
work near the end of one of the few LA subways or light rails and happen to live
near a station, you're going to have to deal with LA traffic. LA traffic is
amazingly bad.

Google is pretty good at calculating distances, but it can't account for
everything. If you live more than 5-6 miles away from your destination, expect
to be on the bus for a very long time. There are cutoffs where things become
entirely insane. Imagine this scenario which is entirely possible if you don't
plan accordingly: you work 8 hours a day, spend 2 hours to get to work, and
spend 2 hours to get home. That's 12 hours of your day. What if you have other
errands to run? What if you have chores to do when you get home? You don't want
your life to be sucked up by the amount of time you travel places.

I had to go to a time warner store once. I dedicated an entire morning and part
of the afternoon to it, and worked afterwards from home because I was sick, and
even if I wasn't sick I wouldn't have had time to bus to work and still get a
full work day in. That's the reality of public transit.

### What Time You Need To Go There

The traffic situation is much, much worse during the earlier hours of the day.
As it gets later, traffic starts to thin. I've made reasonably long bus trips
that would normally take nearly 2 hours in 25-30 minutes at 11PM at night. The
time when you need to travel makes a lot of difference.

## TAP

The LA transit system's technology is pretty embarrassing for 2013. Our most
recent development is that we have a new system called "TAP" which are cards
loaded with cash or transit passes that are meant to be 'tapped' on fare boxes
in buses and at rail stations.

A huge problem with TAP is that their [website](http://taptogo.net) is utterly
ridiculous. I don't know who they paid to write that monstrosity, but it's
basically impossible to work with.

The biggest problem with TAP by far is that they are letting all of the bus
systems in LA county pick it up at their own pace. The metro buses all have fare
boxes, but Santa Monica's Big Blue Bus does not, and they are just one of many
who do not have tap boxes. For the ones that don't, there is a different pass
for that.

### EZ Transit Passes

These things are the bane of my fucking existence. I had nothing but problems
with them. Essentially, since not all bus systems in LA support TAP cards, they
have a monthly pass that is designed to let you ride *all* of LA county's various bus
systems, and it is known by the misnomer 'EZ Pass'.

EZ passes are the same as the regular monthly tap card passes, but also come
with a sticker with the month stamped on it. These passes are valid from the
first day of the month until the end of that month (so yes, they're screwing you
over in February). They work like normal TAP passes on buses that have supported
fare boxes, and work as flash passes on those that don't (you just show them the
front of the pass as you board).

So, what's wrong with them? Everything.

First of all, they're stressful to get. You can buy them at selected Vons and
Ralphs grocery stores, among other stores, and there are two different databases
on two different websites (taptogo and metro's website) with differing
information, so you end up having to call each place individually to make sure
they have the passes. There are some transit stores that I have never been to,
and if you're lucky enough to be close enough to one that going there is a
viable option then you'll probably be fine.

So what's wrong with the grocery stores? Everything. First of all, every single
store I've bought an EZ pass from has lied to me. I bought them from 3 different
stores. For each store, I called them and asked them "Do you have an EZ transit
passes."
"Ummmm, uhh, bus passes???? Which one?"
"The EZ transit pass."
"The $70 one?"
"No, the one with the sticker, it costs $84."
"Oh, uh... yes. We have them."

Not a big deal, right? Well, this would be fine, except when I actually got to
each of those stores and got to checkout and told the cashier that I wanted to
buy a pass, they'd be like "Ummmm... Hm. Let me see if I have any left." and
then they'd go check a drawer. What's up with that? You do not tell someone on
the phone that you have something without checking first and making sure. This
was really stressful. Imagine walking a mile or so to a grocery store to buy a
bus pass and then be told "Well, we may not have any.". What now? Walk two miles
to another store? Get a bus? Spend the day hunting bus passes? That's
ridiculous.

Oh! But you can order EZ Transit Passes online! Yeah, that's too good to be
true.
